# final-dashboard-mongodb
Python Jupyter Codes and CRUD functionality code with py files
How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

One of the common ways to make sure to write programs that are maintainable, readable and adaptable is to use proper tools. For this course, being able to work in Jupyter Notebook helped a lot in this sense because I was able to bring a unique sense of dividing the code into smaller conjuctions. Not just for this project but so many others too. The CRUD python module I developed in Project One can be used in so many more instances. Think about it, how many websites exist in the world that have some sort of data? How many industries exist that have some sort of database? All these databases need to have functionality to create, update, read, delete etc. The code I developed here will help me a lot in being able to do that easily. Advantages of working this way was making sure everything is doable and easy to manage without being overwhemled by the level of detail. 

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist one of the things I learned was that one of the most important core personality to have is logic to solve problems. The more logic you can have and understand the better your approach to coding will be. Computer's do not think for themselves, they do what we want them to do. Anything else that is extra or not needed is just considered optional. My approach to this project differed alot because the database needed live interactive capabailities something I had not done in my previous courses.  One of the techniques I would use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests is to make sure I understand the problem fully. For example, one of the things I had to do was go step by step as detailed in instruction. At the start, I did not even understand what the assignment was asking. As I worked my way through the project, encountering different errors and figuring different solutions. By the end I had a full stack working web based dashboard. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

A company like Graziso Salvare is highly dependent on manual processing. All this could be manually done for sure such as find a dog, look up the place online, check the breed, determine the characteristics and so many more parameters. But are they efficient? The database/set they had was too big to work on manual processing. The process was automated in a way that now we are able to filter based on different selections. This ensures better freely mind. 

Thank you for reading. 
